We thought that this might be some kind of pushing between the empires, but something
else happened, the worst case scenario.
We were aware of the fact that we had to prepare for some serious changes.
There were thousands of people at the border.
People had to wait in long queues, several kilometers long.
But every day we received 200 or more refugees, our brothers and sisters who were seeking
refuge in Poland.
It was really touching since most of them had only one bag.
It was not possible to take more.
The brothers of the coordinators, the committee of the governing body were analyzing with us
about how to help and what we could do.
Immediately, the first disaster relief committee was set up.
And when we realized that there was already a need in the whole of Poland, 16 committees
started their work.
The number of DC-50 applications of those who wanted to volunteer increased every week
by thousands, indicating that the willingness and readiness to help was huge.
We prepared everything in order to be able to welcome refugees at the border crossings,
at the reception point set up by the authorities on Ukrainian border, and at other locations
where the trains from Ukraine were arriving.
We knew we would have to ask the congregations for accommodations.
At the beginning, we prepared a survey that helped us organize everything.
We know that it's thanks to Jehovah's backing.
Because in just a few days, we received more than 7,500 replies.
For assembly halls and 22 kingdom halls were temporarily converted to refugee relief centers.
The brothers were traveling for days and needed some basic things, hygienic products,
diapers for children, and many other things.
Not only clothes, but many basic necessities.
They received food.
They could warm up, take a shower, and get some rest.
In addition to this, in many places volunteers prepared rooms for donated garments, where
brothers and sisters could choose clothing.
In some places, brothers prepared special areas for children, where there were toys, crayons,
something to draw on, something to play with, so that the children could feel busy there.
Doing something helped them to get their minds off what they saw when they were fleeing.
The children expressed their gratitude in their pictures.
Almost everywhere, they wrote,
Thank you, thank you.
They drew pictures of paradise, expressions of their hope.
It was so touching.
The circuit overseers, together with the elders, did something absolutely spectacular.
In the beginning, some of these brothers made hundreds of shepherding calls in two or three
weeks.
The goal was to deliver 40,000 humanitarian aid boxes.
We were responsible for purchasing food, hygiene products, some first aid items, medical supplies.
We had to find a logistical location where we could store all of this.
Afterward, we had to think about how to pack it, how to deliver it to the border, and then
how to transport it to Ukraine, where at this very moment, the war continued.
It was very nice to observe the volunteers who came to help us pack up the supplies.
When the brothers from all over the country got to know about the need, they were ready
to drive 300 or more kilometers from many hours to devote a couple of hours to packing boxes.
As it turned out later on, it was more or less 190 tons of supplies.
In each package, we also put some drawings made by children.
It was an expression of love in those humanitarian aid boxes.
Having this opportunity to help the brothers, we saw an expression of Jehovah's love and
might in all these efforts.
Only Jehovah could prepare his people for such a well-organized and effective activity.
Many of the brothers have commented that the fact that they see so much being done to
help the brothers in Ukraine right now convinces them that if they're in that situation in
the future, if they're sometime when they need that love or they
need that help, well, Jehovah's organization is going to be there to help them as well.
Belonging to Jehovah's household, being part of a worldwide family is priceless.
The hatred in the world continues to grow constantly and there's just more conflict and disunity.
At the same time, the unity and the love of Jehovah's people just keeps on increasing
and it just becomes more and more powerful.